# Analyzing School District Performance: Insights and Trends
 ## Introduction
This project utilizes Pandas and Jupyter Notebook to analyze and report on a school ditrict's performances based on various key metrics. The analysis includes summaries and visualizations of data related to student performance, school spending, and other key factors. The report also highlights observable trends within the data.

## Usage
- Upload Jupyter Notebook file <code style ="color:blue">[Analysis.ipynb](https://github.com/Ernawaty2024/panda-challenge/blob/main/PyCitySchool/PyCity_School_Analysis-%20Jupyter%20Notebook_files/Analysis.ipynb)</code>.
- Upload two resources files: <code style ="color:blue">[school_complete.csv](https://github.com/Ernawaty2024/panda-challenge/blob/main/PyCitySchool/Resources/school_complete.csv)</code> and <code style ="color:blue">[students_complete.csv](https://github.com/Ernawaty2024/panda-challenge/blob/main/PyCitySchool/Resources/students_complete.csv)</code>

### Key Components of the Report
1. **Disctric Summary:**
   - A high-level snapshot of the district's key metrics is created in a DataFrame. This summary includes:
     - Total number of unique schools
     - Total Students
     - Total budget
     - Average math score
     - Average reading score
     - Percentage of students passing math
     - Percentage of students passing reading
     - Percentage of students overall passing (both math and reading)
     
2. **School Summary:**
    - Detailed metrics for each school are calculated and presented in a DataFrame. This includes:
    - School name
    - School type
    - Total students
    - Total school budget
    - Per student budget
    - Average math score
    - Average reading score
    - Percentage passing math
    - Percentage passing reading
    - Percentage overall passing
    
3. **Performance Ranking:**
    - Schools are ranked based on the overall passing percentage.
    - **Highest-Performning Schools:** The top 5 schools by overall passing percentage.
    - **Lowest-Performing Schools:** The bottom 5 schools by overall passing percentage.
    
4. **Scores by Grade:**
    - Analysis of average scores for math and reading by grade level (9th, 10th, 11th, 12th) at school.
    
5. **Scores by School Spending:**
    - Performance metrics are broken down based on school spending ranges per student. This includes:
        - Average math score
        - Average reading score
        - Percentage of studdents passing math
        - Percentage of students passing reading
        - Overall passing percentage
    - Spending ranges are categorized into four bins for analysis:
        - <$585
        - <$585-630
        - $630-645
        - $645-680
        
6. **Scores by School Size:**
    - Performance metrics are categorized based on the school size:
      - Small (<1000 students)
      - Medium (1000-2000 students)
      - Large (2000-5000 students)
    
7. **Scores by School Type:**
    - Analysis of school performance basen on the type of school (disctric and charter)
    
        
## Credit
The dataset files budget_data.csv and election_data.csv were generated by edXBootCamps LLC and is intended for educational purposes only.